I didn't.
NOTE CONF
Make it.
Okay, I'll give you another minute to scan the code.
NOTE CONF
Thank you.
So.
NOTE CONF
Much.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF
Okay, let's get started.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Today's lecture is about word learning again.
And we talked about while learning a little bit when
NOTE CONF
we talked about what segmentation where the problem was that
during language acquisition the child is exposed to a speech
NOTE CONF
stream, and then in the speech stream, there isn't any
obvious boundaries and they need to find out what the
NOTE CONF
meaningful units are, what the word boundaries are.
This is called speech segmentation or word segmentation.
NOTE CONF
Let's assume the kid is able to do this.
Then there's still the the problem of reference.
NOTE CONF
So how would you connect the the words that you've
learned to objects in the world.
NOTE CONF
How do you map the two.
And we'll talk about that today.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we'll first talk about in general terms what kind
of results people have obtained when they've studied children.
NOTE CONF
And then we'll talk about a particular model of, uh,
specific subdomain of number learning.
NOTE CONF
And that will be in quite a lot of detail.
This will be a Bayesian model.
NOTE CONF
If you remember the lecture from Tuesday, we talked about
Bayesian modelling, and we looked at all sorts of funny
NOTE CONF
examples to do with smileys and spars and people trying
to decide when to visit the spar and so on.
NOTE CONF
So this will be an actual cognitive example that applies
the same modelling technique.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Um, so as I said, we talked about transition probabilities.
NOTE CONF
We talked about things like minimum description length as a
way of building a lexicon.
NOTE CONF
And now we're going to put this together with more
facts about word learning, and in particular with the idea
NOTE CONF
of applying Bayesian modelling.
Um, there would be an extended example using number words.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what is the problem to start with?
NOTE CONF
Well, um, so far we've just talked about words as
sequences of sounds or phonemes, and maybe we've talked about
NOTE CONF
them in the context of how do you construct a
sentence or how do you construct the past tense of
NOTE CONF
a word?
But we haven't really talked about the meaning.
NOTE CONF
So today's lecture and tomorrow's lecture is all about the
meaning of the words.
NOTE CONF
Once you've figured out what the word boundaries are, for
example.
NOTE CONF
And the problem we're facing is that you have objects
in the world, let's say spoons, and you have the
NOTE CONF
word spoon.
And how do you do this mapping.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So how do you know that spoon is essentially a
NOTE CONF
function that picks out, let's say, from the set of
cutlery, the the objects that are spoon shaped and can
NOTE CONF
be used as spoons have a certain size, certain weight,
certain function and so on.
NOTE CONF
So there's a cluster of things that characterise an object.
And children obviously are able to do this mapping fairly
NOTE CONF
early on.
They actually start learning concrete nouns such as spoon.
NOTE CONF
These are the first the first words they learn and
but the world is hugely ambiguous.
NOTE CONF
So how do we pull off this mapping?
And there's a famous example in the philosophy literature by
NOTE CONF
Quine, who was a philosopher of language, and he has
the example.
NOTE CONF
It's called the guy example.
It Goes as follows.
NOTE CONF
So let's assume you meet someone whose language you don't
speak, and you're trying to understand what they're saying.
NOTE CONF
They utter a word and that comes with a pointing
action.
NOTE CONF
They point at a rabbit, so maybe they mean a
guy's a word for rabbit.
NOTE CONF
But if you think about it, it's actually highly ambiguous.
It could mean a lot of things.
NOTE CONF
It could mean a rabbit, could mean this is our
dinner, right?
NOTE CONF
Let's catch the rabbit.
Uh.
NOTE CONF
Be quiet.
Not to, uh, to disturb the rabbit.
NOTE CONF
Could be a longer utterance.
What a cute furry thing.
NOTE CONF
Could refer to rabbit parts as.
Now the ears, the tail, and so on.
NOTE CONF
Or maybe they're afraid of rabbits, and they want you
to get rid of it.
NOTE CONF
Get it out, grab a guy or don't move.
It could be something that's actually an instruction to you.
NOTE CONF
It's not referring directly to the rabbit, or it could
be referring to rabbit parts like the ears and maybe
NOTE CONF
a property.
Maybe a guy means long ears in that language.
NOTE CONF
This is essentially the problem the child finds himself or
herself in.
NOTE CONF
They have an adult.
They have an environment.
NOTE CONF
There's lots of toys.
There's lots of objects.
NOTE CONF
There's stuff going on and they hear utterances.
Initially, they don't know the meaning of any of the
NOTE CONF
utterances.
They don't know any words.
NOTE CONF
How do they map, for example, objects onto nouns?
Or later on, how do they map verbs into actions,
NOTE CONF
adjectives onto properties, and so on.
And as we've seen most languages, you know, they have
NOTE CONF
a lot of words.
They have tens of thousands, hundreds or thousands of words.
NOTE CONF
And the child doesn't even know which ones are important.
Maybe they can figure out repetition, words that are repeated
NOTE CONF
a lot.
But still the ambiguity remains in most cases.
NOTE CONF
And even if you've decided, okay, this word has to
do with this object, Does it refer to the properties
NOTE CONF
of this object, the size of the object, the colour?
It could be lots of things, right?
NOTE CONF
So this is called the mapping problem.
So we have two problems.
NOTE CONF
The first one.
Is the generalisation problem.
NOTE CONF
So how do you generalise from seeing a few objects
and hearing a few words that all these utterances which
NOTE CONF
sound similar spoon are actually the same word.
And all these objects which have certain similarity as well
NOTE CONF
are the object that is referred to spoon.
Right?
NOTE CONF
So it's a generalisation problem.
And then there's the mapping problem.
NOTE CONF
How do you map the words that you've heard onto
reference for example objects.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So people have obviously worried about this.
NOTE CONF
And uh, Quinn's um, conclusion was basically it's impossible.
And that might be true philosophically, but psychologists and cognitive
NOTE CONF
scientists, they have thought about this problem a bit more
and basically come up with a set of strategies or
NOTE CONF
heuristics that the child could possibly employ to solve the
problem.
NOTE CONF
First, the quote here, and this is slightly more general.
So for any set of data, there will be an
NOTE CONF
infinite number of logically possible hypotheses consistent with it.
The data are never sufficient logically to eliminate all competing
NOTE CONF
hypotheses, and that is an important observation that just looking
at the data on its own is not going to
NOTE CONF
be enough to.
To to eliminate hypotheses or to, to confirm hypotheses.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So here what we're talking about these different quinine utterances
NOTE CONF
here.
They're essentially hypotheses about what is a possible a possible
NOTE CONF
meaning for the utterance.
And maybe if we could be sure that it's a
NOTE CONF
noun, then we could already get rid of quite a
lot of these utterances.
NOTE CONF
Or if we're sure it refers to a whole object
rather than to rabbit parts, then we could already get
NOTE CONF
rid of quite a few of these hypotheses.
Okay, so this is what Markman is saying here.
NOTE CONF
We need to make additional assumptions.
And then of course, the next question cognitive scientists will
NOTE CONF
immediately ask where do these assumptions come from?
Maybe they are innate.
NOTE CONF
Maybe you can learn these assumptions as well.
And there's evidence for both aspects.
NOTE CONF
But let's look at these assumptions first.
So there's two in particular that are important.
NOTE CONF
The whole object bias and the mutual exclusivity assumption.
So these are biases heuristics.
NOTE CONF
They're basically built in strategies that help with word learning.
And let's look at these in a bit more detail.
NOTE CONF
And in particular let's think about why would this help
with word learning?
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the first one is relatively straightforward.
NOTE CONF
So if you have a an object shoe here and
let's say someone is pointing to that shoe or giving
NOTE CONF
you that shoe, it's somehow salient in the environment, right?
Because if I look at this room, there's lots of
NOTE CONF
objects.
But let's assume we pick out an object and then
NOTE CONF
there's an utterance.
And this bias says, well, objects mostly refer sorry.
NOTE CONF
Words mostly refer to whole objects, not to object parts.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we hear a new word.
Then the assumption would be this would refer to to
NOTE CONF
the shoe, not to, I don't know the back part
of the shoe or the, the sole of the shoe
NOTE CONF
or the shoe laces and so on.
So that's one bias.
NOTE CONF
And the other bias is mutual exclusivity.
So sorry for the slightly blurry picture here.
NOTE CONF
So the assumption is essentially that every object has only
one name, so there's no ambiguity.
NOTE CONF
So and that helps you because if you see a
new object and a new name, then it's very natural
NOTE CONF
to assume you map them onto each other.
And this is actually from an experiment, right?
NOTE CONF
In this experiment, the child sees a cow.
And here's a word cow a block.
NOTE CONF
And here's the word block.
And this novel object looks a bit like a mop.
NOTE CONF
And here's the word yuck.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So the natural assumption here is that's the claim that
yolk is not another word for cow or a synonym
NOTE CONF
for block, but it refers to this novel object.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So you have a new name, and because you assume
mutual exclusivity, you assume that this new name refers to
NOTE CONF
the new object.
So there's obviously something going on here, right?
NOTE CONF
So I said that York is not another name for
cow in general.
NOTE CONF
Can can objects have multiple names?
Of course they can.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have synonyms all the time.
NOTE CONF
We can say dog, doggy, mutt.
We can come up with things that mean the same
NOTE CONF
or similar things.
So of course synonyms.
NOTE CONF
But the assumption here is that initially you don't assume
a new word is a synonym for a new word
NOTE CONF
is something that is referring to something new.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is in the limit a false assumption because
we do have synonyms.
NOTE CONF
But initially in language acquisition the child assumes I'm not
learning a lot of synonyms for dog.
NOTE CONF
I'm learning a lot of words for lots of different
animals for example.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So it's a heuristic.
NOTE CONF
It's sometimes correct or most of the time correct.
But there's it's not a 100%.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that's the assumption of mutual exclusivity.
NOTE CONF
And if you have these two things.
Whole object bias right.
NOTE CONF
So we don't talk about rabbit parts.
We don't talk about colours and properties.
NOTE CONF
We just talk about objects to start with.
And we assume that objects don't have multiple names.
NOTE CONF
Then we can do the following.
We can use something called fast mapping.
NOTE CONF
And you might remember when we talked about how children
develop their vocabulary.
NOTE CONF
There's a period in the second year of life where
vocabulary grows very quickly, sometimes called the vocabulary explosion or
NOTE CONF
the vocabulary growth spurt, where children seem to learn 1020
words, words a day and things happen, happen, happen really
NOTE CONF
quickly.
And so this fast mapping process is a way of
NOTE CONF
explaining this growth spurt.
Right?
NOTE CONF
Because then if you're able to immediately infer The reference
by just having a single exposure, seeing the object once
NOTE CONF
here and the the world ones.
Then obviously you can learn really, really quickly, right?
NOTE CONF
If you let's assume you use some sort of slow
statistical learning scheme where you have to see the object
NOTE CONF
and the word together lots and lots of times, and
the more you hear it, the more likely you are
NOTE CONF
to do the mapping.
And ultimately, let's say a threshold is reached and then
NOTE CONF
you think the mapping works.
This is not what we're doing here.
NOTE CONF
We're assuming a single example is enough, right?
That's why it's called fast mapping.
NOTE CONF
And of course that helps.
That is helped by the heuristics we've seen.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So we have the new object.
NOTE CONF
We know the new word will be about the objects
will not be about properties or parts of the object.
NOTE CONF
And the new word will will refer to it.
So these two heuristics mutual exclusivity and the whole object.
NOTE CONF
Bias helps us with this fast mapping.
And maybe this explains this growth spurt.
NOTE CONF
And there's an interesting aside.
So if you are interested in machine learning, uh, machine
NOTE CONF
learners, they're very keen on this assumption as well.
They call it something different.
NOTE CONF
They call it one shot learning.
But it's essentially the same idea that from a single
NOTE CONF
training example, you can generalise and you suddenly know what
the correct classes say, right?
NOTE CONF
So the machine learning people would see this as a
classification problem.
NOTE CONF
You have an object and you assign it a class
which we we are calling a noun or a word,
NOTE CONF
but they would call it a class label.
And essentially the same problem.
NOTE CONF
And it's called one shot learning.
Sometimes you short if you need multiple a small number
NOTE CONF
of examples but more than one okay.
And then of course people ask.
NOTE CONF
That's a nice assumption.
But does it actually work?
NOTE CONF
And here's an experiment that basically says yes and no.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is the same setup.
The question.
NOTE CONF
There's two questions we're interested in.
So first of all do these fast mappings.
NOTE CONF
So let's assume we can observe them.
But do they actually last right.
NOTE CONF
The child might be able to repeat the word back
to you immediately.
NOTE CONF
And maybe a few hours later they have gotten it.
So how good is the quality of these fast mappings.
NOTE CONF
And do they also generalise?
Remember the generalisation problem was that we have multiple objects
NOTE CONF
that all belong to the same category, let's say spoon
or rabbit.
NOTE CONF
But they all look slightly different.
And can we once we've learned the word spoon or
NOTE CONF
rabbit, can we then generalise this to other similar objects?
That's the generalisation problem.
NOTE CONF
So we'll look at that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the experiment was as follows as follows.
So we have our children And we give them trial
NOTE CONF
trials like this where we have two known objects like
glasses and dog, and a made up object is called.
NOTE CONF
And it looks weird.
So it's sort of a, uh, pyramid kind of shape.
NOTE CONF
Anyway, that's the team.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And here's another example.
We have a car, we have a block, and we
NOTE CONF
have the yolk, which is this slightly mop shaped object
that we saw earlier.
NOTE CONF
Here we have a duck and a cow.
Oh that's a that's a distractor trial.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Because this is not actually a cow.
NOTE CONF
Interesting.
And then we have, uh, this object called fold.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that would be our novel object.
NOTE CONF
And the assumption would be the children.
So you present these three objects and the three words,
NOTE CONF
and then you ask them what's the time?
And they should point to this.
NOTE CONF
What's the yolk?
They should point to this.
NOTE CONF
And what's the fold?
I should point to this.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so that's the one shot learning or the fast
mapping, right?
NOTE CONF
If children are immediately able to say, okay, this one
has to be the gym, but can they remember this?
NOTE CONF
So we give them what's called retention trials.
So we give them a yoke a gym and whatever
NOTE CONF
this object is called.
And now we ask them, let's say half an hour
NOTE CONF
later, an hour later, can you name this object.
So are they still able to reply with yoke and
NOTE CONF
gym and so on.
That would be the retention trials.
NOTE CONF
And then the extension trials is you give them a
slightly different object of the same category.
NOTE CONF
So this is a fold but slightly different shape.
This is a gym but different colour and so on.
NOTE CONF
Can they apply these new words to the the objects
of the same category?
NOTE CONF
But they're not the same objects.
They're slightly different.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So let's look at this.
NOTE CONF
So here is just a reference selection.
So here this is the accuracy here on the y
NOTE CONF
axis.
And this is for familiar names like cow.
NOTE CONF
And this is for unfamiliar names like Chim.
And this is chance here the line is chance.
NOTE CONF
Right.
If you just guess, you get it right a third
NOTE CONF
of the time.
So we're clearly above chance at around 70%.
NOTE CONF
And it doesn't matter whether it's familiar name or novel
name.
NOTE CONF
So this is here.
Oops on.
NOTE CONF
Sorry I managed to go the wrong way.
This is here on the left hand side.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So glass 80% correct.
NOTE CONF
Dog 80% correct, 80% correct.
So it doesn't really matter that this is a novel
NOTE CONF
word.
So great.
NOTE CONF
That's fast mapping.
Sort of.
NOTE CONF
But can they actually remember it.
So let's look at the retention trial.
NOTE CONF
Now we show them the object a half an hour
later and ask what's the name.
NOTE CONF
And they perform here at chance level at around 30%.
So I've forgotten the name, right?
NOTE CONF
So fast mapping, but also fast forgetting.
Unfortunately.
NOTE CONF
And this is the extension trial where we give them
different team and they're not able to to generalise.
NOTE CONF
So this is without forgetting in between give them immediately
a different team.
NOTE CONF
But they cannot apply the new word to the new
but slightly different object.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So fast mapping doesn't really seem to be the answer,
NOTE CONF
at least not the whole story.
And so people have wondered what else is going on.
NOTE CONF
And various theories have been advanced.
So one of them is context is called context based
NOTE CONF
inference.
Context based learning.
NOTE CONF
The idea is forget the fast mapping.
You just collect lots of statistics across a lot of
NOTE CONF
contexts.
So we're no longer assuming that a single exposure is
NOTE CONF
enough.
We are collecting statistics of the sort where.
NOTE CONF
Team occurs in the context of this word.
Then there's lots of other stuff in between and we
NOTE CONF
say another team and so on.
So we collect statistics over time.
NOTE CONF
And this way we're able to ultimately infer what the
meaning of the word is.
NOTE CONF
So we're no longer fast.
The problem is of course.
NOTE CONF
Then how do you explain the growth spurt.
Right.
NOTE CONF
How to how do you explain that?
They learn the words very quickly, but a single exposure
NOTE CONF
doesn't seem to be enough.
Or maybe we just need more heuristics.
NOTE CONF
So there is evidence that there's other biases that help
children in addition to the exclusivity bias and the the
NOTE CONF
whole word bias.
And here we look at two the taxonomic taxonomic bias
NOTE CONF
where children, when they hear a new word, they assume
it's Related in a taxonomy, in a hierarchy to other
NOTE CONF
words that they already know, and the basic level of
bias, which is a bias for basic level categories.
NOTE CONF
And I will only talk about this very quickly because
we'll actually come back to that next week when we
NOTE CONF
talk about categories in more detail.
So but taxonomic bias.
NOTE CONF
So and this is something that seems to be specific
for words.
NOTE CONF
So here again a child is in this case seeing
a picture.
NOTE CONF
Right.
I'm going to show you something.
NOTE CONF
And can you show me another one.
And the preference here is not for pig but for
NOTE CONF
milk.
Because milk is obviously not a cow.
NOTE CONF
It's not another cow, but it's related to the cow
because it's associated with it.
NOTE CONF
Right?
Milk and cow go together.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, uh, the preference here Is for the thematically
related object compared to the taxonomically related.
NOTE CONF
Pig is the same type of thing.
It's also a farm animal, so it's taxonomically related.
NOTE CONF
And this is if we just say, I'll show you
something.
NOTE CONF
But what if we introduce a novel word.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to show you a Dax.
Dax is a new word.
NOTE CONF
And then can you show me another Dax?
Do the children assume that the cow is a Dax?
NOTE CONF
And then Dax means something like farm animal?
Or do they assume Dax is a word for milk?
NOTE CONF
And Dax means something like cow related stuff?
Okay, and here the preference is the other way around.
NOTE CONF
All right, so they now don't think milk is the
correct reference but pig is the correct reference.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So the two are taxonomically related if you think of
NOTE CONF
a hierarchy.
I don't know if you remember the word hierarchy from
NOTE CONF
lecture three.
I think it was.
NOTE CONF
Uh, there you would have, uh, you know, you would
have living thing, animal farm animals versus wild animals.
NOTE CONF
And then within the wild animals you would have cow
and and pig and so on.
NOTE CONF
You would have a hierarchy of different categories.
And so cow and pig are related in that way
NOTE CONF
because they're both animals.
They both live on a farm.
NOTE CONF
They produce things that humans consume and so on.
But milk would not be related to cow in the
NOTE CONF
same way, right?
It would just be associated with a with a cow.
NOTE CONF
So that seems to be a bias.
And note that if we don't present a new word,
NOTE CONF
if we don't say Dax, then we don't get that
bias.
NOTE CONF
So it seems to be a word learning bias rather
than a general bias that happens all over the place.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And I think, hold on, this is now all clap
NOTE CONF
time.
Um, I think I will skip the basic level bias
NOTE CONF
in the interest of time.
So the basic level bias is another bias that basically
NOTE CONF
says if you have simple categories like dog and more
fine grained categories like Dalmatian and super ordinate, more coarse
NOTE CONF
grained categories like animal, then you go for dog, right?
If this is a new object, then you would say
NOTE CONF
dog.
You wouldn't say Dalmatian or animal.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So that's another bias that has been postulated that also
NOTE CONF
requires a hierarchy.
It's also a form of taxonomic bias.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But let's do a quick.
NOTE CONF
walk up and there's only nine people signed up so
far, so I'm hoping there's no technical issues or anything
NOTE CONF
like that.
So.
NOTE CONF
You.
Know.
NOTE CONF
How people are having problems.
There's more than 20 in the room.
NOTE CONF
Okay, I'll leave this up and I'll start the questions.
Okay, so this is a simple sort of sanity check.
NOTE CONF
We've talked about the mapping problem and the generalisation problem.
And here is some examples of things that the children
NOTE CONF
need to learn.
And you're supposed to figure out if it's an example
NOTE CONF
for the mapping problem or for the generalisation problem.
So for example, learn that Dax is the name of
NOTE CONF
a new object in front of you.
Learn that cat refers to can refer to all domestic
NOTE CONF
felines, right?
Not just the cat that you happen to have at
NOTE CONF
home.
Uh, learning that furry refers to a property rather than
NOTE CONF
to an object.
Because, you know, children have the whole object bias, but
NOTE CONF
ultimately they need to learn properties as well.
Learning that Fido is a name for the family pet,
NOTE CONF
rather than for dog in general, or for a pet
in general.
NOTE CONF
So which kind of problem are we dealing with?
With mapping or generalisation?
NOTE CONF
I.
Don't.
NOTE CONF
Know.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look.
At this one.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So learning that can refer to all domestic felines, most
NOTE CONF
of you think is generalisation.
That's correct.
NOTE CONF
Learning that Dax is the name of a new object
in front of you, that's a mapping problem.
NOTE CONF
Also correct.
Learning that Fido is only the name of the family
NOTE CONF
pet rather than dogs in general.
Also mapping.
NOTE CONF
That's correct.
And learning that furry refers to a property, not an
NOTE CONF
object.
Yeah, that's a bit ambiguous, right?
NOTE CONF
But it's probably a generalisation problem.
Do you need to first generalise the object name and
NOTE CONF
then.
Let's say you've learned the object names.
NOTE CONF
Then you can generalise that something like furry must be
referring to a property.
NOTE CONF
Well it's a slightly more complicated one.
Okay I have another one.
NOTE CONF
Oh sorry I'm showing you this.
Just showing you the answers.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so this is a bunch of, biases.
And I've not given you all the possible biases.
NOTE CONF
There's actually more.
That people have stipulated in the literature.
NOTE CONF
But which one do you think are possibly learning biases?
So the shape bias, uh, apply words to objects based
NOTE CONF
on their shape rather than colour, material, size and so
on.
NOTE CONF
So if two things have a similar shape, then you
assume they're the same object.
NOTE CONF
Mutual exclusivity.
Assume that every object has only one name, so there's
NOTE CONF
no synonyms.
Length bias.
NOTE CONF
Assume that longer names refer to less common objects.
Whole object bias.
NOTE CONF
Assume that words refer to whole objects, not to parts
or properties, and novel object bias.
NOTE CONF
Assume that new words refer to new objects.
Which ones do you think are actual biases?
NOTE CONF
Special.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Let's have a look.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So shape eyes.
That's actually a real thing.
NOTE CONF
So only 46% of you thought it was an actual
bias.
NOTE CONF
But note that it's a bias.
Not about learning shapes.
NOTE CONF
It's a bias about learning objects.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So the idea is that objects that have similar shapes,
you assume that the same word is used to to
NOTE CONF
refer to them.
And that makes sense, right?
NOTE CONF
If you look at, I don't know, chair, all chairs
have a similar function.
NOTE CONF
So they also have a similar shape.
So potentially that's a useful bias.
NOTE CONF
Mutual exclusivity.
We've seen that assume that a new name refers to
NOTE CONF
a new object rather than being a synonym for an
object already.
NOTE CONF
Length bias.
Yeah, that's completely made up.
NOTE CONF
It's not entirely implausible, because we know that long words
are normally low frequency.
NOTE CONF
I don't know, something like serendipitous is a low frequency
word, whereas cool is a short frequency is a high
NOTE CONF
frequency word.
So and that correlates with how how common they are,
NOTE CONF
right.
So length and frequency seem to seem to correlate, but
NOTE CONF
it's not an actual learning bias.
At least people haven't claimed that whole object bias we
NOTE CONF
have.
We've said if you find a new word.
NOTE CONF
Assume it refers to the rabbit, not to the rabbit
parts and novel object bias.
NOTE CONF
This is sort of a strange way of formulating mutual
exclusivity.
NOTE CONF
It's not actually a bias as such in the literature.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Moving on.
So now we've seen all these fancy biases and we've
NOTE CONF
seen lots of examples.
We've seen a little bit of experimental data to do
NOTE CONF
with how children pick up new words, mostly nouns.
And that's because almost all the literature deals with concrete
NOTE CONF
nouns, which children learn first.
But and they're also easier to study.
NOTE CONF
I think that's that's another reason.
But now obviously in this course we're interested in modelling
NOTE CONF
and in building computational accounts of cognitive behaviour.
So let's look at that.
NOTE CONF
And last time we looked at Bayesian modelling right.
Bayesian modelling was a way of combining a prior, combining
NOTE CONF
knowledge that is there without any data, without evidence, with
data and evidence.
NOTE CONF
So you have two probabilistic terms which we call the
prior probability, which tells you what hypothesis is is plausible
NOTE CONF
and what hypothesis is not plausible, and the likelihood, which
is the probability of seeing certain evidence, certain data, given
NOTE CONF
that a hypothesis is true or not.
So now the question is why is this a good
NOTE CONF
approach for word learning?
What do you think?
NOTE CONF
What could we naturally model using Bayesian Bayesian inference that
we've just talked about in detail?
NOTE CONF
Any idea?
Should have done a walk up for this to say
NOTE CONF
okay.
So if I say Day prior instead of bias.
NOTE CONF
Does that maybe ring a bell?
So we've talked about all these biases, all these heuristics
NOTE CONF
that kids have.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And that is really nothing other than a prior, right.
It's the probability that whole objects are referred to is
NOTE CONF
higher than the probability that rabbit parts are referred to.
The probability of hearing a synonym is low compared to
NOTE CONF
the probability of hearing a new word, right?
So if I know these things without any evidence a
NOTE CONF
priori, then these biases actually give me a prior right.
They give me certain if my hypothesis space is vast,
NOTE CONF
right?
Contains all the all the adjectives and all the properties,
NOTE CONF
all the objects and all the nouns, all the verbs
and the actions.
NOTE CONF
All the stuff is in my hypothesis space.
But my prior tells me that a priori, without any
NOTE CONF
evidence, without hearing any words or seeing any objects.
Certain things are more likely than others, right?
NOTE CONF
So these biases, they really their way of stipulating a
prior.
NOTE CONF
And then of course, I can't rely on the prior
on its own.
NOTE CONF
I also need to observe what people say, right.
What they're pointing to, what they're referring to when they
NOTE CONF
when they utter a certain noun or certain verb, and
so on.
NOTE CONF
And this is my likelihood, right?
The probability of hearing a certain word, given that I
NOTE CONF
don't know a dog is being referred to.
So these two sources of evidence can be combined in
NOTE CONF
an elegant way using a Bayesian framework.
That's why it's attractive here.
NOTE CONF
And in other cases too, where I'm assuming that certain
things are given maybe innate, like, I don't know, mutual
NOTE CONF
exclusivity or the whole word bias.
And certain things are derived from data such as what
NOTE CONF
words people actually say in the context of of certain
objects.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this is often the situation we find ourselves in,
NOTE CONF
in, in when we're solving a cognitive problem.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So more formally this is called Bayesian hypothesis testing.
So the hypotheses here are certain mappings of words to
NOTE CONF
objects.
Or as we'll see of uh number concepts to number
NOTE CONF
words.
Right.
NOTE CONF
We're looking at a very specific case here to do
with number.
NOTE CONF
So we are interested in the learning of number words.
And if you remember last time when we build a
NOTE CONF
Bayesian model there are certain things we need to consider.
So first of all input output.
NOTE CONF
So what is the what information does the model have
access to.
NOTE CONF
So for example here we assume that number words occur
with a certain frequency.
NOTE CONF
It turns out one is the most frequent number word
for example.
NOTE CONF
And the output.
What sort of responses are allowed here?
NOTE CONF
This is a counting in the context of a counting
task.
NOTE CONF
So that's the sort of output we're looking for.
Correct counting of objects.
NOTE CONF
Then what's the hypothesis space.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So the hypothesis space is the different mappings between numbers
and concepts or between objects and nouns.
NOTE CONF
These and which mappings are possible.
So we need to think about that.
NOTE CONF
That's our hypothesis space.
And then our inductive bias or our learning bias that
NOTE CONF
will give us our prior.
So what can the model do even if there's no
NOTE CONF
data.
What does it know a priori before data is available.
NOTE CONF
And then the environment what kind of data is available.
Right.
NOTE CONF
How do we compute our likelihood essentially.
So we need to think about all these things.
NOTE CONF
And I'll now take you step by step through the
assumptions of this particular model of word learning, which is
NOTE CONF
I'll just give you the reference here.
This is the et al paper that is also a
NOTE CONF
reading for this week.
This is just a recommended reading because it's a pretty
NOTE CONF
long and complicated paper.
But have a look if, if if you feel feel
NOTE CONF
like it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what is the task.
And I've mentioned this very early I think in lecture
NOTE CONF
1 or 2 briefly.
It's to do with counting.
NOTE CONF
When children learn to count.
They do this at the same time when they learn
NOTE CONF
language sort of one year or two years of age,
they initially learn the number line.
NOTE CONF
So they learn how to say one, two, three, four,
five, six, seven.
NOTE CONF
They learn the sequence, and only later on they learn
actually to map this onto number concepts.
NOTE CONF
So a child initially will tell you, oh, I can
count until 20 and they can recite the numbers from
NOTE CONF
1 to 20, but then you give him or her
a bunch of cookies.
NOTE CONF
And you say, well, please give me five cookies, and
they give you four or 7 or 3.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Even though they know the number five.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So they haven't mapped the number concepts onto the words
NOTE CONF
for numbers yet.
They've learned the number line but not the mapping of
NOTE CONF
concepts.
And again this is something psychologists have studied in some
NOTE CONF
detail.
So the task is called the given task.
NOTE CONF
And it's essentially exactly what I, what I told you.
So I asked the child give me one cookie, give
NOTE CONF
me two cookies, give me three cookies.
And at some point they will no longer be able
NOTE CONF
to do the mapping.
And they will just give me a random number of
NOTE CONF
cookies.
So maybe they they have learned 1 or 2.
NOTE CONF
So they can give you 1 or 2 cookies correctly.
But then I ask 5 or 7 and they just
NOTE CONF
give me lots of cookies.
Right?
NOTE CONF
They think that five and seven just mean many.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
And.
So three cookies might be okay, but then four cookies
NOTE CONF
no longer.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Because the number concept hasn't been mapped onto the correct
NOTE CONF
number word yet.
And four is just either you get a random response
NOTE CONF
or the child thinks it means many or something like
that.
NOTE CONF
And here's a fun graph that looks at this across
lots of languages Japanese, Mandarin, Arabic, Slovenian, and so on
NOTE CONF
and so on.
And the different concept levels.
NOTE CONF
So non means doesn't know any numbers.
One means knows one and everything else just means many
NOTE CONF
two, three, four.
And typically once children reach 4 or 5, they are
NOTE CONF
then able to generalise and they can give you arbitrary
numbers of cookies.
NOTE CONF
They're able to map the number line onto the number
concepts.
NOTE CONF
And this is called the cardinal principle here.
So this is in purple.
NOTE CONF
And you see in terms of H here's the H
in terms of months this is around 40 months.
NOTE CONF
And so they gradually move up to about 3 or
4.
NOTE CONF
And then at the age of let's say 15 months,
something like that, um, they're able to map, uh, to,
NOTE CONF
to acquire the cardinal principle.
So suddenly they know all the numbers correctly.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
And this the exact timing differs a little bit from
NOTE CONF
language to language, but the overall pattern is the same
even in languages like this is Tsimane, which is an
NOTE CONF
Amazonian language that doesn't have number words in the same
way as as other languages do.
NOTE CONF
But this, this task, the the speakers are still able
to do, though they take much longer to pick up
NOTE CONF
the number concepts.
As you can see here.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But we're not going to talk about the different languages.
NOTE CONF
We're going to talk about how to model this in
one language.
NOTE CONF
So going back to our little recipe here.
So input output we said we have number names and
NOTE CONF
number concepts number words and number concepts.
And we map them onto each other.
NOTE CONF
But we need a hypothesis space as well.
So what would be a possible hypothesis space.
NOTE CONF
So intuitively it's possible mappings right.
We need to choose between all possible mappings.
NOTE CONF
And these authors here they have done something I don't
want to say idiosyncratic but they have written these hypotheses
NOTE CONF
as little Lisp programs.
So if you've taken enough one A then functional programming
NOTE CONF
is familiar to you.
And so maybe this is you know, this is of
NOTE CONF
course lambdas and functions written with lambdas.
But it doesn't really matter.
NOTE CONF
You just think of it in terms of a bit
of code that implements the particular, uh, the particular mapping
NOTE CONF
that you're interested in.
So let's say we look at this bit of code
NOTE CONF
which corresponds to the yellow dot here.
Right.
NOTE CONF
One note.
So these are the children that know the number one.
NOTE CONF
So they can give you one cookie but two or
3 or 4 cookies and so on will not work.
NOTE CONF
So we have this function which takes a set as
an input s.
NOTE CONF
And if the set is a singleton then the output
one everything else is undefined.
NOTE CONF
So you either say I don't know or you just
pick a random number of cookies.
NOTE CONF
Same for two nodes.
If it's a singleton, the output one.
NOTE CONF
If it's a double or a set of two, you
output two, then undefined, three nor and so on.
NOTE CONF
You get the picture and it becomes more interesting if
you look at the cardinality cardinality principle, right.
NOTE CONF
So what happens here at the age of, let's say,
50 months, where you move from being able to count
NOTE CONF
to 3 or 4 to being able to count arbitrary
numbers of cookies.
NOTE CONF
And we have this program again takes a set S
checks if it's a singleton, outputs a one, and if
NOTE CONF
not, then we take the set difference.
We select one, so that removes one member from the
NOTE CONF
set.
Take the difference with this one member.
NOTE CONF
And then L means we apply this function to itself.
So at the same time we output the next word
NOTE CONF
on the number line.
So if the previous word was one then we now
NOTE CONF
output two and so on.
So this is recursion right.
NOTE CONF
So it's a function calling itself.
So this l here is the call to this function.
NOTE CONF
Here to this lambda expression.
So the claim in this particular paper is that children
NOTE CONF
actually learn counting by initially figuring out a few examples,
but then they acquire the concept of recursion.
NOTE CONF
And of course the recursion is very useful because it
tells you, well, I can count to three.
NOTE CONF
If I get an extra cookie, then I can count
to four.
NOTE CONF
Then I call the same procedure again, I can count
to five, and so on.
NOTE CONF
So where have we seen recursion before in this course?
And why would people think that this is even cognitively
NOTE CONF
plausible in any way?
Do you remember the grammars in, I think week end
NOTE CONF
of week one.
Beginning of week two.
NOTE CONF
Right.
That was the idea of recursion in grammar that we
NOTE CONF
can have recursive grammar rules.
We can make our sentences longer and longer and longer.
NOTE CONF
And here we're just making our set of concepts bigger
and bigger and bigger through recursion by calling the same
NOTE CONF
process, and this is by no means an uncontroversial assumption,
but these authors assume that we have this concept of
NOTE CONF
recursion because we use it for language for grammars, for
example.
NOTE CONF
Then we can.
This concept is available in other domains as well.
NOTE CONF
So here it's used for counting right.
We have our counting procedure.
NOTE CONF
And somehow the child figures out that this is a
recursive thing.
NOTE CONF
And so if they can count until, I don't know,
1217, then they can easily figure out one 1218 as
NOTE CONF
well.
Right.
NOTE CONF
By this principle of recursion, that's the idea.
And okay, so they they throw in a lot of
NOTE CONF
other hypotheses as well which are less plausible.
Just to illustrate that there's this big hypothesis space, and
NOTE CONF
we somehow need to narrow it down to be able
to, uh, to, uh, to figure ultimately out that we
NOTE CONF
need this, uh, cardinal principle function here.
So how do they implement this mathematically?
NOTE CONF
Okay, so we promised that we're going to use Bayes
rule, right?
NOTE CONF
If you remember Bayes rule, this is the probability of
a hypothesis given the data.
NOTE CONF
And they write this as the probability of the hypothesis
where the hypothesis are these functions, uh, given the word
NOTE CONF
and the set.
So a word is something like three and a set
NOTE CONF
is here, uh, a collection of three objects.
I've just written dots here.
NOTE CONF
So what's the probability of a given hypothesis?
So for example, this program here, given that we've seen
NOTE CONF
a certain word, heard a certain word, and, uh, sorry,
produce a certain word and seen a certain set.
NOTE CONF
And then Bayes rule tells us this is the same
as the likelihood p of w given and h the
NOTE CONF
set in the hypothesis and the prior p of h.
Okay, note that I've used this symbol here, which means
NOTE CONF
proportional to.
Because I've gotten rid of the probability of the data,
NOTE CONF
right?
Bayes rule had a denominator here p of d, which
NOTE CONF
we're not very interested in.
So if we remove this it's a constant.
NOTE CONF
So it's still proportional.
It's not equal anymore.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So the input is word and z pairs.
NOTE CONF
So for example three and three dots or three cookies.
And the output is one of these programs right.
NOTE CONF
One node two node three node cardinal principle and so
on.
NOTE CONF
And how do we compute the likelihood.
So let's assume if I apply my hypothesis my program
NOTE CONF
to a certain set and I get a word w,
then with a certain probability I actually say that word.
NOTE CONF
So we assume that this happens with a certain probability.
It doesn't necessarily happen all the time because we assume
NOTE CONF
there's some noise the children make.
Make mistakes, get distracted, and so on.
NOTE CONF
So with the probability of alpha, which is close to
one, let's assume 0.9.
NOTE CONF
We then say the word w.
However, even a child who's in one of the other
NOTE CONF
states, right, let's say the child is here is a
two node and it's given five cookies.
NOTE CONF
Maybe they just guess.
So it could be that they by chance guess the
NOTE CONF
correct number word.
And that's what we're saying here.
NOTE CONF
So one minus alpha.
So in the case where we're not uttering the correct
NOTE CONF
word we're just guessing that's the probability of one minus
alpha.
NOTE CONF
We could guess correctly by chance.
So we add that as well.
NOTE CONF
And then we divide by one over n where n
is the the number sequence that we have available at
NOTE CONF
the moment.
So the child knows the number sequence from 1 to
NOTE CONF
20, say, or 1 to 100.
Right.
NOTE CONF
This is when they tell you I can count to
100.
NOTE CONF
Then they mean they know the number sequence.
They don't know the concepts yet.
NOTE CONF
And this is the end here.
And then let's also assume that they sometimes just say
NOTE CONF
I don't know.
And this is undefined here in our programs.
NOTE CONF
Right.
They return undefined if it's not part of the normal
NOTE CONF
level yet.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this kind of principle is sometimes called a size
principle because it depends on the size of the set.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So the n here depends on the size of the
NOTE CONF
set.
And.
NOTE CONF
If you look back to one of these biases here
the basic level bias.
NOTE CONF
This has also been modelled using the size principle.
And this is I have not talked about that, but
NOTE CONF
this is something that crops up all over the place.
You somehow want to map a set like a set
NOTE CONF
of objects, in our case, onto another set.
A set of numbers.
NOTE CONF
And if you keep your set as small as possible,
then that's a good heuristic.
NOTE CONF
And this is incorporated in the size principle here.
I'm out of time.
NOTE CONF
So I will skip the quiz and we'll talk about
the prior next time.
NOTE CONF
Remember we have a likelihood in the prior.
So the likelihood here is this thing influenced by the
NOTE CONF
size principle.
And the prior is basically something that tells you about
NOTE CONF
the complexity of the program.
For example, whether you use recursion or not.
NOTE CONF
And we'll talk about that next time.
Thank you.
NOTE CONF